he  goes i try to ford video of the still be interesting if i come back and watch them myself many years
after  the controversy the moment has been forgotten element i signed the canterbury of the moment is
that  the kinder morgan pipeline will be socialized
the  socialized it will become government for our party and operated by and for the public
sector  but prime minister canada
a  deeper broader question
but  a question of
what  are well i pines why is the left why do we call it just oppose this technology
so  absolutely certainly within
i'm  not speaking of topics of saravia restore many other countries when sure
these  interposed very difficult differently but in canadian states
become  a sort of ethical punching bag for the left and he goes to bed up on and in this video i am
instead  gooses that there is a moderate position on pipeline
forgotten  in
one  of the fundamental problems internet
is  that it tends to pull he rides
tends  to break the range of possible outcomes
two  binary opposite extremes
distort  and misrepresent reality so have earlier video tauoca ism and social surely great
example
people  who are against socialism try to represent the meaning of the term as if the only thing that can
possibly  mean is joseph stalin's gain russia in the worst
period  of soviet tyranny and then you know on the other hand there is some kind of glorious
free  market where creating at all where socialism is a responsible for things
like  segretamente prisons and health care and these are both deeply misleading approaches to a
so  many of his this is relevant to this pipeline this new social government of fifine
that  sentiment announced today in reality all modern western
countries  are a hybrid
of  socialist capital elements when we look at the map of the economy there are little
spheres  of socialism here and there whether it but health care example the military and
the  verses that are presumed to be predominantly or entirely private sector
remarked  capitalism
we  tend to think of big projects in hydrocarbons in oil and gas sector
as  free market and capitalists
i  imagine precisely when it comes to things like pipe lines
an  enormous amount of government of movement for the same reason that there's an enormous amount of government involvement in constructing
sewers  or in constructing power lines or even
welcome
telephone  connections
dagonet  work that requires a centralized planning and going through a lot of different people's
property  with a lot of elements of risk involved
and  where the benefits
building  the infrastructure may be part
actually  there is a lot of government involvement in these kinds of big infrastructure projects when we are another
and  justice has made the decision that the government is going to completely
there  is an economic misconna
at  the basis of both the inner morgan pipeline and the northern gate with
are  two bold bilboes that go west west west into the ocean and then i promised
a  newspaper articles i don't know if they promise this when there talking to rightly to investors that the
reason  why these will make enormous amounts of money is that china is in a position to buy
all  the oil the canada compassable
first  of plasencia science my second university diploma from the university of victoria
still  a complete still halted the second tree it is an agent studies i read
and  speak chinese
as  a lot of time setting politics and economy of china and not only china the
this  is a misconception that was created by a brief period
intense  economic activity in china they went through a boom where they were buying all the steel
that  canada could produce all the steel that the whole wallenrode but that kind of short term boom doesn't
last  forever and is just not true that china is in a position where they need to buy all the oil we
look  at a map and lyrically you're going to see the china is connected to many different sources of cheap oil
both
and  by land there connected by train and oil pipe line to several sources of oil with
in  russia and the sheep of the border between northern china and she
very  confuse
the  current pipeline they are new pipeline being constructed there there's also an ocean corder
that  goes up to second island where the russians are producing enormous amounts of oil that they sell the book japan and
china  the ocean also goes south of course around the corner from china to
all  the rest of asia but ultimately including the oil that comes from famous port
like  you know an ultimately said arabia all the stuff all that sentence
great  way and then this is not even mentioning the whole reserves in central asia countries
we  don't think about so much of the modern western press like seistan and tusitala you there's
yet  more oil than to can get it that way and again as you can imagine they are pipeline
there  as well
china's  need for oil is finite not infinite
and  its need for canadian oil may be
and  i want to see that since the year fibbed the mania
for  the chinese economy the delusions the chinese economy is so infinite so bottomless the demands
i  guess that's died away
and  that the reason why we've seen newspaper stories lately saying that investors no longer want to support kindergarten
no  longer at port these types of pipe lines going west from canada to the ocean is not that there are protest
streets  of much real against this pipeline i would guess that it really is because they figured
economic  fundamentals the underlying economic
do  not hold up that is very questionable whether or not this asserting a real economic need or recount unto
posed  to it pipeline for the sake of building a pipeline which is
a  multipolar
enough  money to make
some  people are going to propose an attempt to pull pipeline as an end itself even if the economics
and  the locanda the pipe lines that economically makes
are  not the ones going to developing economies in the
the  pipeline is going to sell oil to the wealthiest economy in the world the united states of america
and  we already have those pirates probably we could build more but it's going to be much shorter much
reliable  bylines going from north to south which is where you're going to see reliable economic
selling  oil to americans
not  to
fundamentally  there is a popular misconception about the ecology of a
if  i were to ask
right  now when you flash your toil
the
the  answer is in
if  i were to ask you
would  the world be a better place
toilet  instead
sage  went into a container
was  on to a
one  was loaded on to a train
to  be moved to its
what  would you do
ecologically
fording  oil by train were
is  much much more
it's  much much more problematic than transporting human suit
but  already it's easy for us to intuitively grasp the problems with moving so round
by  truck and train it's easy for us to grasp the advantages
moving  sewage by pipeline
and  this is what all around the world cities have built
sage  pipeline
even  if it's just to convey the sewage from your home to the see treatment
sadly  on the
to  a river or a lake as
where  do we get this delusion we can let's be honest i know exactly where we
who  are protesting as the pipeline
with  the misapprehension
you  don't build the pipe
that  the oil will say
they  do so with the delusion that what were debating is the difference between gasoline
a  power
be
heavy  oil
that's  not what we're to be
what  were debating is after the old comes out of the ground
is  it going to be train
the  map
transported  by the pipeline
words  are going to be transported by truck
and  ecologically out of those two actions or out of the actions of pipe lines and
all  the other alternatives for
a  helicopter you name it
pipeline  is superior ecologically technologically and socially in every
possible  way
do  pipeline have disadvantages
they  got one big one
they  have the disadvantage that inevitably they will leak
we  can say it's inevitable the trains carrying oil are going to have crashes
and  they do so when you look on the case so tissandier rate and with much irishman life
how  do we cope with that threat would that men
count
intuitively  most people most ecologists and most of the people even the boards of directors of
companies  that make these decisions most people think that the weight to manage the risk of
to  locate those pipe lines in the most obscure and inaccessible areas as
that's  what we always have controversies the united states and canada but placing pipeline inside national
about  having pipe lines go through first nations native reservations through
areas  of melton and bush and desert where nobody's going to see them and nobody can get
and  that only magnifies
i  place you can possibly put a pipe line is right next to canada highway number
and  gus you may think that's crowded disciplinary canada it's not you can
go  to gomari now the major highway that goes to west from sustaining
canada  bleak and under populated country but as you have it next to a major galetti
you  basically make the map of the grid of pipe lines more or less approximate
the  grin of highways
the  reality is that when there's a spill one
people  are going to
people  are going to notice it and indeed it's not enough to just have electronic surveillance systems built
into  the pipes which we do have now many examples of it in states you can get all trackin saying hey
the  pressure dropped in the pipe but still seven days and fourteen days to go by before the action of work cruise on
the  ground there to dig it up and fix the problem and then merit the air
people  are going to see the problem people on to report the problem and heavy equipment
it's  going to be possible to deploy experts and heavy
trucks  heavy equipment to go with the problem or get a crane and get a back hole at all the
construction
to  that sight as quickly as
it's  right next to a highway
that's  going to happen in record time this here as going to be witnesses and there's going to be accountability for any collateral
damage  done if indeed the problem with the pipeline was due to malfeasance in the part
of  the company so it's not sometimes his just due to an earthquake or who knows why there's some problem
there  really is no
question  isn't necessarily always a fault or accountability
just  taking responsibility and fixing a problem as quickly as possible when you run these pipeline to remote
and  depopulated areas then just think of the challenge airedale account of this
even  if the company and even if the government has the best of inclinations if they really want to get
out  there and fix this problem as rapidly as possible how rapidly it is as rapidly as possible portamento
mountain  area where there's no road access
he  donating a team of guides surveyors just walking around looking for the problem is on the
pipe  line or you try to use helicopters to get to these inaccessible areas and then once you found
it  how rapidly really can you deploy the experts and equipment you need to
you  should have a pipeline is right next to an halter
so  this is an example of something that is counter intuitive in every way it seems intuitively obvious
to  do the
this  is the
so  close is it your basis it the right thing with the wrong thing
socialized  this pipeline
partly  a question of whether not you think the planning that behind this pipeline is irrational
pipeline  was planned
for  profit
if  it is going to be one as a non profit
if  you're going to run a pipe line as a social ere
the  same way that you may build telephone infrastructure what have you in reality doesn't make
to  take over for profit line that in my opinion was built on the delusion that china
had  an infiniment of money to pay for an inn
if  you want to build a nonprofit pipeline that's the
i  should go back to the
a  blank piece of
look  at the economic or social function of where the oil is coming from where needs to go how to
really  mitigate and take responsibility
definitely  the root of this
here  it is on the map of an
it  where it's the